[DOCS] Adds Input Validation / Type Checking doc for custom expectations (#4092)
great-expectations/great_expectations: docs/guides/expectations/features_custom_expectations/how_to_add_input_validation_for_an_expectation.md

---
title: How to add Input Validation and Type Checking for a Custom Expectation 
---

import Prerequisites from '../creating_custom_expectations/components/prerequisites.jsx'

> This document describes how to add configuration validation for an Expectation. 

Reviewer: Line 7 should be updated to be consistent with the change in line 2, or removed entirely (line 7 is somewhat redundant to line 2, so it would also make sense to have the introduction to the guide start with line 15.

<Prerequisites>

 - Created a [Custom Expectation](../creating_custom_expectations/overview.md)

</Prerequisites>

> [Expectations](../../../reference/expectations/expectations.md) will typically be configured using input parameters: 
> for example, we might expect the fraction of null values to be most `mostly=.05`, or the mean of a row to adhere to a `min_value=5` bound.

Reviewer: If you remove line 7 and have the introduction to this guide start here, it would make sense to tweak the initial statement to reference type checking and validation of input parameters.  (It makes less sense to have a guide about type checking and validation of input parameters start out by not mentioning them and talking about Expectations instead.)

```suggestion
[Expectations](../../../reference/expectations/expectations.md) will typically be configured using input parameters which the Expectation's code will require to fulfill some criteria in order to be used or provide relevant results.  Ensuring that these requirements are fulfilled is the purpose of Type Checking and validating your input parameters.

For example, we might expect the fraction of null values to be most `mostly=.05`, in which case any value above 1 would indicate an impossible fraction of a single whole (since a value above one indicates more than a single whole), and should throw an error.  Another example would be if we want to indicate that the the mean of a row adheres to a minimum value bound, such as `min_value=5`.  In this case, attempting to pass in a non numerical value should clearly throw an error!
```

> This guide will use the Custom Expectation built in the [How to create a Custom Column Aggregate Expectation](../creating_custom_expectations/how_to_create_custom_column_aggregate_expectations.md) tutorial to walk you through the implementation of a method to validate that the provided input parameters satisfy the requirements for your Custom Expectation.

Reviewer: This reads a bit difficultly.  I would suggest breaking it up, possibly something like:

```suggestion
This guide will walk you through the process of adding validation and Type Checking to the input parameters of the Custom Expectation built in the guide for [how to create a Custom Column Aggregate Expectation](../creating_custom_expectations/how_to_create_custom_column_aggregate_expectations.md).  When you have completed this guide, you will have implemented a method to validate that the input parameters provided to this Custom Expectation satisfy the requirements necessary for them to be used as intended by the Custom Expectation's code.
```

<details>
    <summary>What don't we need to validate?</summary>
You may have noticed we're not validating whether the <inlineCode>column</inlineCode> parameter has been set.
Great Expectations implicitly handles the validation of certain parameters universal to each class of Expectation, so you don't have to!
</details>

### 2. Defining the validation method

We define the `validate_configuration` method of our Custom Expectation class to ensure that the input parameters constitute a valid configuration, 
and doesn't contain illogical or incorrect values. For example, if `min_value` is greater than `max_value`, `max_value=True`, or `strict_min=Joe`, we want to throw an exception.
To do this, we're going to write a series of `assert` statements to catch invalid values for our parameters.

To begin with, we want to create our `validate_configuration` method and ensure that a configuration is set:

```python file=../../../../tests/integration/docusaurus/expectations/creating_custom_expectations/expect_column_max_to_be_between_custom.py#L95-L109
```

Next, we're going to implement the logic for validating the four parameters we identified above.

> First we need to access the parameters to be evaluated:

Reviewer: Going from "To begin with," to "Next," to "First" without a section break introduces a non-intuitive ordering of instructions.  You might want to add a section break around line 50:
```suggestion
Next, we're going to implement the logic for validating the four parameters we identified above.

### 3. Accessing parameters and writing assertions 

First we need to access the parameters to be evaluated:
```
...and then update the numbers for any following subsections accordingly.
